Transform your EM Workflow
Open-Source Freedom. Commercial Reliability.
With a modern EM stack you can iterate freely, optimize faster, and scale seamlessly with automated design exploration and cloud HPC.

Let's work together!
Simulation Visualization
Why Traditional EM Tools Hold You Back
Restrictive "HPC" Licensing
Stop letting seat limits and artificial barriers dictate your simulation capacity. Be free to harness the power of cloud-based or on-prem HPC.

Rigid & Inefficient Workflows
Stop wrestling with bloated GUIs, manual mesh and CAD tweaking. Replace sequential, one-at-a-time testing with rapid, automated design exploration.

Generic Support Tickets
Stop relying on support staff who just read you the manual. Partner with experts who actually solve your physics problems.

Open-Source FEM Electromagnetics
pip install palace-toolkit
Explore the Documentation →
Backed by real support
Active Q&A & Troubleshooting
Get unstuck fast with direct access to expert guidance. No tickets, no waiting — real answers for your simulation problems.

1:1 Diagnostic Sessions
Private sessions to review your simulation setups, validate results, and debug complex models with direct expert feedback.

Customized Templates
Pre-built simulation templates tailored to your application — antennas, waveguides, filters, and more — so you start fast and iterate smarter.

Online Program
Join the Online Program Waiting List
Access active Q&A, troubleshooting support, and 1:1 diagnostic sessions. Enrollment is invite-only — notify me when it opens.

your-email@example.com

I'm not a robot
Protected by ALTCHA

Notify Me
Don't just run simulations. Trust them.
EM Applications
Real-World EM Applications
Design and simulate patch antennas, phased arrays, waveguide filters, mmWave transitions, FSS, and EMI/EMC scenarios—from CubeSAT dual-patches to substrate integrated waveguides.

Parametric CAD with Python
Parametric CAD with Python
Create parametric geometry with Python: reusable templates, design variables, and automated model generation for fast iteration and design-space exploration.

Advanced Meshing with Gmsh
Advanced Meshing with Gmsh
Master boolean operations, adaptive refinement, sizing fields, and physical groups to build robust, convergence-ready meshes for complex 3D geometries.

Palace Solver
Palace Solver and Cloud/HPC
Set up frequency sweeps, eigenmodes, and transient runs. Apply ports, lumped elements, and absorbing boundaries correctly for reliable, repeatable results.

Verification & Validation
Verification & Validation
Build trust in your results: convergence checks, energy balance and sanity tests, port impedance validation, and comparisons against analytical or reference models.

Post-Processing
Post-Processing
Turn solver output into engineering insight: field visualization, S-parameter plots, far-field patterns, and clean, reproducible reports using ParaView and Python tooling.

Custom CAD and Simulation Software

Build Internal Tools that Match Your Needs
We develop specialized software tailored to your engineering needs. From CAD automation tools and parametric design generators to hybrid simulation frameworks and cloud-based deployment—we build the custom infrastructure that makes your workflow efficient and scalable.

Technologies & Tools
OpenCascade
CUDA
Python
Julia
C / C++
Fortran
Gmsh
ParaView
Qt
VTK
Three.js
CuPy
MPI
Docker
FEniCSx
OpenEMS
Palace
Meep
Slurm
HPC
gdsfactory
FreeCAD
CADQuery
PyVista
Custom Software Development
Our Engineering Services

Design Refinement and Full-Wave Verification
In sectors like RFIC, Photonics, and Advanced Packaging, a single design iteration can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars and months of delay. Our engineering services bridge the gap between layout and tape-out, providing the physical-layer certainty needed to de-risk your investment and enhance device performance.

Let's work together!
Simulation Report Example
RFIC & MMIC
We perform full-wave EM extraction for critical on-chip passives. We characterize spiral inductors, transformers, and complex matching networks, delivering high-fidelity SPICE models that match silicon reality.

Photonic Integrated Circuits (PIC)
We leverage gdsfactory to build and validate automated photonic layouts. From high-efficiency grating couplers to complex interferometers, we provide the EM simulation and parameterized cell (PCell) development.

Advanced Antennas & Array Design
We design and validate advanced antenna systems. We optimize impedance matching, element coupling, and beam-steering behavior with full-wave simulation to improve gain, bandwidth, and radiation efficiency.

Model Library & Open Wiki (Coming Soon)
Silicon Photonics
Silicon Photonics
High-speed optical modulators, waveguide components, and passive structures via gdsfactory integration.

RFIC Design
RFIC Design with IHP
Full-wave EM characterization of on-chip passives for IHP BiCMOS: spiral inductors, transformers, baluns, and matching networks with verified S-parameter models ready for circuit integration.

Antennas & RF
Antennas & Waveguides
Patch antennas, horn antennas, phased arrays, waveguide components, and feed networks for radar, satellite, and wireless communications.

Quantum RF
Quantum RF
Design and optimization of integrated passives for superconducting circuits: resonators, couplers, and interconnects with full-wave EM verification at mK operating conditions.

About Us

About Epsilon Forge
We're a spin-off from the University of Buenos Aires and the CONICET research agency, built on deep technical expertise and a commitment to science and technology.

Our mission is to reduce barriers to engineering innovation through cost-effective simulation software and expert support.

Martin D. Maas
Martin D. Maas, PhD
Professor of Applied Mathematics

Founder of Epsilon Forge

University of Buenos Aires
University of Buenos Aires, Argentina

Simulation Services You Can Rely On
Hover Logo
Hover | Automation and Machinery
Project Overview
Challenge: Verify the design of a magnetic grid trap according to food safety standards.
Solution: BEM-based simulations and detailed post-processing and documentation.
Result: The study confirmed the separator's compliance while highlighting optimization possibilities.
★★★★★
"I hired Epsilon Forge for a finite element analysis of a magnetic trap, and the results were outstanding. Their team was professional, communicative, and delivered precise insights that exceeded expectations. The analysis helped optimize the design and move forward with confidence. Highly recommend their reliable and top-quality services!"

- Daniel Manjon, Manager

Google Review

GDSFactory
Project Overview
Challenge: The chip design industry's reliance on traditional, closed-source CAD/CAE software leads to vendor lock-in, high costs, and slow innovation, especially for bleeding-edge fields like Quantum RF.
Solution: Deployed a simulation server within the GDSFactory+ platform.
Result: Ongoing work.
Confidential | Medical Device Startup
Project Overview
Challenge: Help fine-tune patent-pending design and compare performance with a competitor's design.
Solution: BEM-based simulation of electric fields.
Result: Gained insight on fundamentals and found unexpected results.
CONAE Logo
CONAE | Argentina's Space Agency
Project Overview
Challenge: Account for cross-polarized backscattering of arable land.
Solution: BEM-based and analytic simulations of rough surfaces.
Result: Contributed to develop advanced retrieval algorithms for soil moisture, help characterized range of validity of analytical methods.
Tenaris Logo
Tenaris | Steel Industry
Project Overview
Challenge: Product mixing issues arising in spite of electromagnetic inspection equipment present.
Solution: Implemented Nonlinear FEM-hysteresis model.
Result: Improved operational practices to improve steel type discrimination.
From our Blog
Topics
All
company
software
hpc
case studies
FEM Electromagnetics in Python: A Complete Ecosystem Guide
FEM Electromagnetics in Python: A Complete Ecosystem Guide
Last modified: Oct 23 2025

Unlock Every Stage of Product Development with EM Simulation
Unlock Every Stage of Product Development with EM Simulation
Last modified: October 3 2025

Why Does EM Software Cost a Fortune?
Why Does EM Software Cost a Fortune?
Last modified: February 19 2025

See all posts