En
Search...
Search
Login
EMWorks logo
Company
Show submenu for "Extra"
EMWORKS Platform
Show submenu for "Products"
Applications
Services
Learning Center
Show submenu for "Products"
Support
Programs
Show submenu for "Extra"
Get a Free Trial
Contact Us
Stripes
Stripes
EMWorks Academic Simulation Use
FEA Tools for Students, Researchers, and University Labs

Trisha Ghaffy   .   July 22, 2014

Unlock Your Trial – See EMAG in Action
The best way to understand the impact of EMAG is to experience it yourself.
Fill out the form to access your trial and start simulating real electromagnetic behavior — fields, losses, forces, and torques in your motors, transformers, actuators, and sensors — because seeing is believing.

First Name
 
Last Name
 
E-mail
+1
201-555-0123
I agree to receive marketing material from EMWorks

Send Request

Over 500 universities globally now utilize EMWorks ' tools. Both EMS and HFWorks have proven to be invaluable resources for students, researchers, and educators worldwide.

EMWorks Inc. is dedicated to supporting today's students—tomorrow's engineers—in their educational journey, helping them shape a better future.



EMS and HFWorks software are also employed by some of America's top-ranked universities. EMWorks actively engage with the academic community, sharing in the dreams, ambitions, and successes of students, researchers, and professors alike.

EMS and HFWorks in USA universities 
University labs & Teaching Institutes using EMS & HFWorks Software

They are talking about us!
…A Lorentz force linear motion actuator was built to deliberately exhibit a highly nonlinear current for force relation even when the coil was completely immersed in the magnetic field. Magnets were arranged radically around the coil but only half the permissible number were included in order to generate a more complex actuator configuration to test the ability of the EMS electromagnetic finite element analysis software to handle more challenging magnetic path geometries. A detailed set of experiments were carried out on the actual actuator and a similar set of analyses were undertaken using the EMS magnetostatic electromagnetic finite element analysis software. EMS correctly accounted for the gross nonlinearities in the current to force measurements…
Ian Hunter: MIT

…We have heard about the EMWorks software as a result of searching for Finite Element Modeling (FEM) software which would be adequate for our purposes. After the review of various offers we stated that EMS has all features we need. The great advantage of this package is that it is based on SolidWorks. Thanks to this design of even very complex models becomes child's play. My first magnetostatic model in EMS was created in just a few minutes! I highly recommend EMWorks software for all those who need friendly interface as well as professional FEM software…"
Zbigniew Usarek: Gdansk University of Technology

The software has been very helpful so far, getting an idea of the linear magnetic flux density of various magnet configurations.  It is far superior in user friendliness than Ansys was. Sadly our old club computer is rather slow at running calculations, so we are trying to do more hand calculations to narrow down our options that we need to simulate. Overall, I'd say we're all very happy with the software”.
Edwin Nowicki: University of Calgary

"Currently we are optimizing Pipeline Inspection Gauge (PIG) with Magnetic Flux Leakage (MFL) system to evaluate technical condition of pipelines. Such system consists of magnetizing yoke and magnetic field sensors. Working PIG can reach velocity of even 10 m/s due to liquid media pressure. Our job is to model effect of velocity on eddy currents generation and hence distortion of MFL signal.  “We’d just like to thank EMWorks for generously donating their electromagnetic simulation software to us. Now we can actually refine the finer points of our motor!"  "I used the AC Magnetics module within the EMS software to model electromagnetic coupling to a lab-scale molten metal charge.  This modeling was meant to investigate the efficiency and efficacy of inductive coupling as a means to heat and stir a metal solvent for a high temperature crystal growth process.  I found the software to be well integrated with SolidWorks, with intuitive menus and feature commands.  The array of parameters available for adjustment was quite broad; I was able to easily set up a good proxy for my actual experimental setup.  The ability to copy/paste an entire study in one step made it especially quick to vary parameters and compare results.EMS software represents a powerful and robust tool for anyone conducts research, design or development of systems involving electromagnetic."  
Paul Von Dollen: University of California

”The installation of EMS for Inventor is very easy; it also has a lot of analysis options. The interface is intuitive and clear. EMS for Inventor allows for fast and accurate linkage analysis in the field of electro-thermal and magnetic as for the design of highly complex projects is very useful. EMS saves time and avoids the problems associated with the transformation of files between different programs - in this way we gain time, which in the case of very complex analysis is priceless. The Support Team of EMWorks is very professional and very helpful - if an error is detected; the reaction and giving solution is very fast…”
Jaromir Koniarski: Silesian University of Technology

   
 
Share on



Recent Articles

Demagnetization in PMSM Rotors: Understanding the Causes and Preventing Performance Loss

The Basics of Induction Heating for Modern Manufacturing
emworks logo
EMWorks develops electromagnetic simulation software designed to reduce complexity, accelerate time to market, and fit naturally into engineering workflows. With built-in CAD, an intuitive interface, and a dedicated support team that speaks engineers' language, our tools are easy to learn and easier to trust—freeing engineers to innovate faster and focus on solving real-world problems.
Who We Are
About Us
Contact Us
Support
Privacy Policy
FAQs
Programs & Services
Consulting
Startup
Academic
Resources
Blog
Webinars
Whitepapers
Exhibitions
Applications
Electric Motors
Transformers
Magnetic Gears
RF & Microwave Components
© EMWorks Inc. All rights reserved.

