En
Search...
Search
Login
EMWorks logo
Company
Show submenu for "Extra"
EMWORKS Platform
Show submenu for "Products"
Applications
Services
Learning Center
Show submenu for "Products"
Support
Programs
Show submenu for "Extra"
Get a Free Trial
Contact Us
Stripes
Stripes
Parametric EM Simulation
Automated Design and What-If Scenario Analysis

Mohamadali Vakilianzand   .   February 26, 2018

Unlock Your Trial – See EMAG in Action
The best way to understand the impact of EMAG is to experience it yourself.
Fill out the form to access your trial and start simulating real electromagnetic behavior — fields, losses, forces, and torques in your motors, transformers, actuators, and sensors — because seeing is believing.

First Name
 
Last Name
 
E-mail
+1
201-555-0123
I agree to receive marketing material from EMWorks

Send Request
What is parametric EM simulation?
In EMS, we can study how the electromagnetic fields, forces etc vary as a function of a given parameter. The parameter can be any SOLIDWORKS dimension or any simulation related variable. Examples of SOLIDWORKS dimensions can be mate distance, model dimension, number of units in a linear or circular pattern etc. Basically, anywhere in SOLIDWORKS where you can input a numerical value as a variable can be used as a parameter in EMS. On the other hand, simulation parameters can be the current in a coil, the number of turns in a winding, the frequency of alternating current etc. Parametric simulations are an elegant way of studying how the electromagnetic fields, forces etc vary with the change in the parametric variable.
How to do parametric simulation in EMS?
Parametric simulations can be enabled in the study option by checking the Parametrization check box as shown in Figure 1. Parametric simulations are allowed for the following study types – Electrostatic, Electric conduction, Magnetostatic and AC Magnetic. Also, one can couple Thermal simulation to these study types with Parameterization.
To enable parametrization

Figure 1- To enable parametrization

Once you have enabled Parametrization in the study, we need to decide the type of parametric simulation we need to perform. We can have SOLIDWORKS geometry dimensions, simulation variables or a combination of both as a parameter. We can also have multiple parameters in the same study to create numerous what-if scenarios.
Creating a SOLIDWORKS dimension as a parameter
To include SOLIDWORKS dimensions as a parameter, we need to first open the Parameters dialog box. One can access the same by RMB (Right mouse button) on the assembly name (above all the studies) in the EMS study tree and select Parameters. This is highlighted in Figure 2 below. Now from the screen select the appropriate SOLIDWORKS dimension to create a parameter.
Selecting a SolidWorks dimension as a parameter

Figure 2- Selecting a SOLIDWORKS dimension as a parameter

Creating a simulation variable as a parameter
Nothing special needs to be done to make the simulation variables as a parameter. Once you have defined the study and created all the components in a study like creating coils, assigning boundary conditions, creating mesh controls etc, you can use any of these as a parameter.
Creating Design Scenarios
Once we have created all the parameters and defined the study completely, it is time to create design scenarios where parameters can be used. To create a design scenario just double click on the Design Scenarios under Parameterization folder in the EMS study tree. You can select the parameters you want and then assign possible values for them. Here one can include both geometric variables as well as simulation variables to parameterize. If you already selected a SOLIDWORKS dimension earlier, it will automatically appear under geometric variables. You can refresh scenarios to include all the possible combinations you want to simulate. Refer to Figure 3 below on how to access Design Scenario page in EMS.

Design Scenarios

Figure 3- Design Scenarios

Run the Study and look at the Results
Once the design scenarios are setup, you can run the study. Once it is solved, you will be able to access the results for all the scenarios.
Examples of Parametric Simulation
Figure 4 shows how the force on a steel plate in a magnet arrangement changes with the distance between the steel plate and the magnet arrangement. EMS automatically plots the Force as a function of distance and all the relevant plots for all the scenarios.


Figure 4- Example 1 - Force variation with distance

Figure 5 shows how parametric simulation can be used to study how the current through the coil influences the force acting on the plunger in a linear actuator.
Example 2 - Influence of current on the plunger movement

Figure 5- Example 2 - Influence of current on the plunger movement

Figure 6 shows how parametric simulation can be used to study the influence of magnet size in the flux produced at a distance from the Halbach array.
Example 3 - Size of the magnet in a Halbach array is treated as a parameter

Figure 6- Example 3 - Size of the magnet in a Halbach array is treated as a parameter



Parametric simulation can be used effectively in EMS for SOLIDWORKS to study how different variables (both geometric and simulation) affect the electromagnetic behavior of a device. It can be used to understand the behavior of your device under a wide variety of what-if scenarios all under one study in EMS. Finally, the result processing capability of EMS enables you to view results for all scenarios. To get more information about parametric simulation in EMS, you can watch the webinar. https://youtu.be/GkykAFhumec
Share on



Recent Articles

Demagnetization in PMSM Rotors: Understanding the Causes and Preventing Performance Loss

The Basics of Induction Heating for Modern Manufacturing
emworks logo
EMWorks develops electromagnetic simulation software designed to reduce complexity, accelerate time to market, and fit naturally into engineering workflows. With built-in CAD, an intuitive interface, and a dedicated support team that speaks engineers' language, our tools are easy to learn and easier to trust—freeing engineers to innovate faster and focus on solving real-world problems.
Who We Are
About Us
Contact Us
Support
Privacy Policy
FAQs
Programs & Services
Consulting
Startup
Academic
Resources
Blog
Webinars
Whitepapers
Exhibitions
Applications
Electric Motors
Transformers
Magnetic Gears
RF & Microwave Components
© EMWorks Inc. All rights reserved.

